Hello and welcome back to this case study Number two about minimizing costs.
And welcome to this homework.
More specifically the solution that we're about to implement and this homework is still in this perspective
and spirit of minimizing even more the cost because it is about implementing early stopping which will
allow us to train the model with a lower number of books meaning that as soon as the performance is
not improved after a certain number of books well no need to continue the training and therefore we
can break it.
We can stop it and we'll still have a great moral and you know what we could still have a better model
than the one we obtained without early stopping.
And the reason for this is pretty classic in deep learning or deep reinforcement learning.
If that happens that means that we have overfitting in the previous model.
You know when you train your model too much well the ways are too adapted to the training set.
And so when you run a new simulation with new observations and therefore new data well your model that
was overfit to the training said might not do well on the test.
So this early stopping technique that we were about to implement is not only about reducing the cost
even more.
It's also about making sure that we don't get overfitting.
And speaking of overfitting there is another technique that is absolutely effective and that you must
have a new tool kit.
This technique is called drop out.
And as a bonus of the section I will provide the code of the brain including the drop out because drop
out consists of activating a certain percentage of your neurons inside your brain during for propagation.
So that not all the neurons learn at every iteration and therefore we won't get in a situation where
all the neurons are overfit to your training data.
So that's very effective.
I'll give that to you after the solution.
But now in this solution we will implement the other technique that is early stopping in which is another
must have.
And you took it.
So here we go.
As you can notice I renamed our previous training for our training.
No early stopping.
So that's exactly what we implemented before you know in that training implementation.
Then I computed which gave me this new file which I renamed training early stopping and that's in this
file that will implement early stopping So so far this file contains the exact same implementation as
training.
At least being.
But in this one we will now implement early stopping so that we can save on the machine and server resources
which I remind are spending a lot of energy and therefore incurring cost when training some neural networks.
So here we go.
Let's do this early stopping is a feature of the training so that's why I'm directly going into the
training code section.
All right.
And so you know what early stopping is about.
It's a technique that will stop the training if the performance is not improved after a certain number
of books and a certain number of books will be a parameter that will choose here and which will curl
patients you know patients.
How much do we have to be patient to improve the performance.
So here we go.
Just after we get our moral.
We're going to introduce now four new parameters.
The first one will be early stopping which will be a boolean because either true or false.
And basically that will be useful for us to give us the option to apply yes or no early stopping so
early stopping is equal to true.
Well early stopping will be activated and if it falls early stopping will not be activated.
All right.
So we will of course initialize this to true because we want to do early stopping now.
Then the next parameter is going to be patients which is exactly that number of books.
We will wait for the performance to be improved and over which we will start training.
And so that number of times is going to be well it's a small number of times which means we're not very
patient.
But I'm starting with this one.
We might get some good results then next parameter is going to be.
And that's a very important one.
The best total reward and that's going to be a variable that will keep in memory and each time the best
tool we want.
And you know the best accumulated reward obtained over the books and so you know what we'll do with
this bet will reward very well.
We will compare each time the accumulated reward then if the community we would beat the best or we
weren't well at best what we were will be updated to that new best value.
And if the Akunyili reward doesn't beat the best tool we work well we will have a there which will be
incremented by 1 and we will compare the counter to the patients.
And if the counter goes over 10 well that's how we will start the trend.
So at best all we want.
How do we have to initialize it.
Well be careful.
We cannot really initialize it to zero because that's all the word can actually be a negative number.
So we're going to use this very famous trick in Python which is initialized to something that can never
be larger than any negative number and that's of course minus infinity which I took from non-pay because
it's a mathematical object from the umpire.
All right so that the best reward will make sure that even at the beginning when we get maybe our first
negative accumulated we word that they won't be lower than this best or we were.
OK.
So that's how you initialize the parameters of early stopping.
But then there is a final one that we have to initialize and which I've just mentioned it is that count
that we'll have to compare to the patients below which we won't start the training and over which we
will start the training and that count we will call it exactly you will see that it will make total
sense to go this way patients count.
OK.
And of course this one will have to initialize it to zero.
And so then what will happen is that at the end of each book we will compare the community reward to
the best that we wanted.
Then if the action related reward is larger than the best or reward Well the best or we will become
this new best.
Actually we work.
However if the action later reward is lower than the best or worst than this patience count will be
incremented by 1 and then it will be compared to the patient.
And if it goes over the patient we will stop everything.
All right let's do this.
And so now we have to go down at the very end of the training section because of course we have to break
the training.
After all the updates of the environment and all you know the process of the training happening at each
time step.
Basically at the very end of the epical you know the one that is looping over the epoche not the timestep
right.
The performance improvement is assessed over the epochs and not the time steps.
So speaking of the epoche loop Well I'm going to go exactly here just before the print I'm going to
introduce a new code section which will be well let's call it simply early Stebbing still belonging
to the general framework with early stuff being implemented.
And here we go.
Let's implement early stopping.
So we're going to give ourselves the option to activate or deactivate early stopping and to do that.
We're going to use this trick if then in parenthesis early stopping which means since early stopping
is a Boolean that means nothing else than if early stuff being equal equals true.
And so in that condition then we will activate early stopping.
And so now again please press pause in the video and based on what I've just explained try to implement
it yourself.
And now I'm going to do it.
So I'm just exactly going to follow what I just explained which is first to check if that's all we wanted.
You know the actual reward of our AI is lower than the best total reward which we've just introduced.
Well in that case of course what we have to do is increment our patience count by 1.
And then as if Or else actually elevate this time to tool reward is well you know going to be this time
larger than the best told word.
So I'm just going to replace that long time by larger then in that case.
Well what we have to do is twofold.
First of course we have to update our best all we very well because it just got bitten by our accumulated
reward.
So it will be now equal to that new X million reward by the AI which has now become the best tool we
wanted.
But that's not all we have to do something else which is to reset the counter no patience count.
Because indeed if we beat the best or we work well we'll be OK to wait for another 10 rounds.
You know another 10 bucks to check if the performance will be improved.
So we have to reset the patience count to zero.
Okay perfect but then there is a last if that we have to do and which is of course about applying our
final touch of early stopping if we must.
In other words that's where we will break the training.
If the performance is not improved and to do this well we're going to add this last if to check if our
patients count just went over the patients that is over 10 bucks without any improvement which in that
case will break everything.
But before we break everything let's just print a nice early stopping in the will quote right.
Just to explain that indeed.
We had to break the training because there was no improvement of our AI performance.
And then final touch we break everything or just the training not our AI of course.
All right.
And then that's it.
We just implemented early stop in congratulations which I remind has two benefits.
First saving the cost even more.
And second preventing overfitting.
And we're going to check if we indeed had some overfilling in the previous training.
Remember we got 54 percent if here we improve that score even more.
Well that means that we might have had overfilling in our previous training.
So what we're going to do now is select everything as you can notice.
I restarted the kernel here so basically everything is reset for a new training.
We can actually delete the previous model because indeed we're about to get a model.
And so now well I think everything is ready to launch that new training with early stopping.
The train has just started.
And here we go with the first epix.
All right.
So we can see that it's a good start indeed.
It's probably the same story as before you know with the same first spending's of energy in the two
separate simulation with the AI and with no AI.
But the question is there are actually two questions.
How long is it going to last.
Is it going to last less than 100 bucks.
And second question are we going to beat the score.
But that will get the answer for the simulation.
The first answer that we're going to get into straining is the number of books we will have reached
at the end.
So right now number 16 We're doing great.
Our aim building indeed the ultimate cooling system except in some books like this one.
Well that's no big deal.
I think it's very similar to before and will let's do the usual.
I'm going to put some little music and we'll see when we reach the end.
And well that music didn't last long.
Indeed the final epoch of the training with early stopping is epoche number 30.
So it was relevant and easy to implement early stopping.
We actually didn't need 100 folks but now we have not one yet.
Let's check that with this new model.
You know with these new weights of the neural network.
But a neural network which was trained for a short number of times therefore with much less updates.
Well let's check that even with this model.
We get some good score on brand new observations and the testing that is over this one full year of
simulation with brand new data.
All right.
So the good news now is that we don't have to change anything here.
You know early stopping only had to be implemented for the training.
And here everything is ready.
Here we're going to load our numeral the one with the weights resulting from early stopping.
So let's execute this.
I'm just going to remove the bike before.
Here we go.
Now let's select everything and execute.
Right.
And again I'm going to put some music again I hope you like the music by the way because I've made you
listen to a lot.
Apologies if you don't like it but I think it's always better to wait for something with some nice music.
And wow not only we had to train for a much less number of time but also we even beat the energy saved
by the AI and that's exactly what I was saying.
There was overfitting in our previous training because indeed in the previous training we trained our
neural network over 100 books.
And here with only three ebooks we beat the final score.
So that's a great illustration of the benefits of early stopping.
Meaning that it's reducing even more the cost in the training of neural networks.
As I told you it is quite costly for companies today even if you know the AWOS servers or the other
servers are reducing their price but still if you have a lot of servers and big data centers this is
definitely cost saving and not only it is cost saving things to a lower number of e-book but also it
is cost saving in terms of energy spent because indeed we save even more energy than before.
So congratulations for tons of things now first that you finished this huge section on the second case
study minimizing cost.
Second congratulations for having completed the homework then the third.
Congratulations for adding early stopping in you to get and forth.
Congratulations for accomplishing our goal with this amazing performance saving 71 percent of energy.
And now don't forget to check the bonus that you'll get in the next tutorial with an article where I
will provide the code to implement dropout to reduce even more overfitting.
So make sure to add it and you took it as well.
And until then enjoy AI.